## 4.2.1 Converting Data in Excel

Video
There are tuimes when data in its raw state is not correctly formatted for the purpose. This can be especially problematic when the data needs to be imported into other tools for further analysis.


## 4.2.2 Practice Item


## 4.2.3 Conditional formatting

Video
We can use the conditional formatting feature in Excel to do some quick analysis of our data. Conditional formatting is an easy way to see patterns or trends in your data. Conditional formatting can also allow us to see the data in a graphical format, such as using data bars.


## 4.2.4 Practice Item


## 4.2.5 Combining Datasets

Video
It is often necessary to combine data for multiple worksheets in Excel in order to have the data you need to imform the analysis. One of the ways is Index/Match. Index is the function that returns the value at a given location in a range or array. Match specifies what we want to match from a table to get the information from another table.


## 4.2.6 Practice Item

##### Objectives
In this lab, you will perform some basic data formatting and adjustment in Microsoft Excel.
    part 1 : Combine Data in an Excel Spreadsheet
    part 2 : Conditional Data Formatting
f
##### Background / Scenario
To enable effective analysis, data points sometimes need to be split (separated), or combined, or formatted into an appropriate type. The presentation of data can also be conditionally formatted to highlight certain values. Manipulating the data in these ways facilitates more meaningful and accurate analysis.

1. Combine Data in an Excel Spreadsheet
    step 1 : examine the data
    step 2 : combine the data

2. Conditional Data Formatting
    step 1 : conditional formatting numeric values
    step 2 : conditional formatting averages values
    step 3 : conditinoal formatting text values

Data formatting applied to cells is dynamic. For example, if a data set is formatted to highlight those values above the average value, and a value in one cell changes to be less than the average, then the formatting (and the average value) will also change accordingly.


## 4.2.8 Practice Item
