## 4.3.1 Formulas and Functions

Video
<br/>
There are a number of functions that can be entered on the formula bar that are commonly used by data professionals.

|Function|Explanation|
|-----|-----|
|CONCATENATE|Combine the data from one or more columns into a single column.|
|LEN|Return the number of characters in a cell and can be useful if data must be utilised in another application that has restrictions on the size of fields.|
|COUNT|Return the number of numeric cells in a range. This is especially useful if you are unsure if all the data in a column is formatted as numeric.|
|COUNTBLANK & COUNTA|Return the number of blank or non-blank cells in a range.|
|COUNTIF|Return the number of cells when a specific criteria is met.|
|SUMIF|Create a sum based on criteria.|
|AVERAGEIF|Take an average if the cell meets the criteria set in formula.|

* Many basic functions can be enhanced by adding additional criteria such as MINIF and MAXIF.
* LEFT and RIGHT are ways to get to the first or last X number of characters.
A complete list of Excel functions can be found on the Microsoft support page. 

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.2 Formulas and Functions

|Name|Explanation|
|-----|-----|
|Functions|Use keywords and are predefined by Excel|
|Formulas|users can build custom formulas themselves using operators|

|Reference|Explanation|
|-----|-----|
|Relative reference|When its value depends on the location of the reference itself|
|Absolute reference|Refers to the same cell or range no matter where the reference appears|

* A dollar sign ($) can be used to make the reference absolute before the column or row indicator.
<br/>

|Errors Indicator|What caused the error|
|-----|-----|
|#NULL|The cell range indicated in the formula is entered incorrectly|
|#DIV/0!|A formula entered in a cell causes a divide by 0 error|
|#N/A|The formula refers to an empty cell, so no data is available to compute|
|#REF|The formula refers to a cell that is not accessible, such as a named sheet that doesn't exist|
|#NUM|The formula entered in the cell is invalid|
|#NAME|A non-existent range name is used in a formula|
|#VALUE|A function is used incorrectly, or the arguments are invalid|

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.3 Lab - Formulas and Functions

### Objectives
In this lab you will learn the basics of using formulas and functions in Excel.
- Part 1 : Using Excel Text Functions : CONCAT, LEN, LEFT, RIGHT, MID
- Part 2 : Using Excel Statistics Functions : COUNT, COUNTBLANK, COUNTA, COUNTIF, AVERAGEIF, MINIFS, MAXIFS
- Part 3 : Experiment with Other Excel Functions

### Background / Scenario
Excel has eleven different categories of built-in functions. Many of the functions used by data analysts belong to the Text and Statistical function categories. The Text function category includes CONCAT, LEN, LEFT, RIGHT, and MID. The Statistical function category includes COUNT, COUNTBLANK, COUNTA, COUNTIF, AVERAGEIF, MINIFS, and MAXIFS. This lab will work through the purpose and usage of each of these functions.

1. Using Excel Text Functions
    - step 1 : open lab workbook
    - step 2 : use the CONCAT function to combine data
    - step 3 : use the LEFT, RIGHT and MID functions to extract information

2. Using Excel Statistical Functinos
    - step 1 : use the COUNT function to find cells with non-numeric values
    - step 2 : use the COUNTA function to find non-blank cells
    - step 3 : use the COUNTBLANK function to find blank cells
    - step 4 : use the COUNTIF function to find non-blank cells
    - step 5 : use the AVERAGEIF function
    - step 6 : use the MINIFS and MAXIFS functions

3. Experiment with Other Excel Functions

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.4 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.5 Pivot Tables

Video
<br/>
PivotTables are a function in Excel that is invaluable to data analysts. PivotTables provide a way to automatically summarise, analyse, explore, and present data. PivotCharts enable you to add visualisations to the data in a PivotTable. Using these built-in tools, you can identify trends, make comparisons between data items and create charts in different styles to visualise your data.

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.6 Pivot Tables

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.7 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.8 Lab - Pivot Tables

### Objectives
In this lab, you will learn the basis of creating a pivot table in Microsoft Excel. Pivot tables provide a way to automatically summarise, analyse, explore, and present data. Charts add visualisations to the data in the pivot table that analyse trends and comparison.
- Part 1 : Creating an Excel Pivot Table
- part 2 : Visualising Pivot Table Data

### Background / Scenario
Pivot tables can reveal useful information in recoreds or data that is not obvious at first sight by summarising and re-presenting the data so trends can be explored and reported. Pivot tables extract meaning from the data by grouping it in different ways, enabling useful conclusions to be made.
<br/>
The "pivot" part of a pivot table stems from the fact that the data can be rotated to view it from a different perspective.
<br/>
Pivot tabes do not change the data. It just reorganises the data to reveal useful information.

1. Creating an Excel Pivot Table
    - step 1 : create the pivot table
    - step 2 : review the pivot table
    - step 3 : rearrange the pivot table
    - step 4 : refine the pivot table
    - step 5 : revise the pivot table

2. Visualising Pivot Table Data
    - step 1 : create a pivot table chart
    - step 2 : analyse the chart data
    - step 3 : revise the chart format

<br/><br/>

## 4.3.9 Practice Item