## 5.1.1 What are Statistics, Populations, and Samples?

Video
<br/>
Statistics is the science of learning from data, and of measuring, controlling and communicating uncertainty. It is a branch of mathematics that details how to derive information from patterns.
In analytics, statistics are used to identify relationships between variables, measure the effect of those correlations, and determine the probability of recurrence.
<br/>
A population is a group of similar entities, such as people, objects, or events that share some common set of characteristics.
It may not always be practical to study all living people or even all tweets since January 1st, 2020. Instead, a representative group from the population cam be used for analysis. This group is called a sample. Samples are randomised selections that are representative of the larger population.
This enables analysts to draw conclusions about samples and generalise those findings to the larger population.

<br/><br/>

## 5.1.2 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 5.1.3 Descriptive Statistics
After the problem statement (also known as the question to be asked) and population is determined, some form of statistical analysis is needed. There are two key branches of statistics that we will discuss in this course:
- Descriptive Statistics
- Inferential Statistics
<br/>
Descriptive statistics are used to describe or summarize the values and observations of a data set.

<br/><br/>

## 5.1.4 Practice Item

Descriptive statistics only allow you to make summations about the people or objects that you have actually measured.

<br/><br/>

## 5.1.5 Inferential Statistics
Inferential statstics is the process of collecting, analysing and interpreting the data gathered from a sample to generalise or predict something about a population. 

<br/><br/>

## 5.1.6 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## Statistics and Big Data

 A numbr of inferential analyses are very commonly used in big data analytics:
 - Cluster analysis : used to find groups of observations that are similar to each other
 - Association analysis : used to find co-occurrences of values for different variables
 - Regression analysis : used to quantify the relationship, if any, between the variations of one or more variables.

 <br/><br/>

 ## 5.1.8 Practice Item
 