## 5.4.1 Discovering Anomalies Through Visualisation

Video
<br/>
It is not uncommon tha data sets will contain anomalies or outlier data points. These are data points that stand out and do not conform to the data set's normal behavioral patterns. The cause of anomalies is usually attribute to corruption, experiment errors or human error. 

<br/><br/>

## 5.4.2 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 5.4.3 Outliers and Anomalies
Before data analysis can begin, considerable time must be spent cleaning the data. During the data cleaning phase, you may find outliers, or anomalies, in the data. If so, they need to be investigated so that the data can be corrected or the meaning of the outlying data point can be understood.
An outlier is defined as a value or data point that varies significantly from others, either much smaller or much greater.
In the data analysis process, outliers that are the result of mistakes can lead to anomalies in the results obtained, whilst outliers that are not errors can be very important to an analysis. This is why investigating anomalies is a very important part of the data cleaning process.
With small data sets it may be relatively easy to spot outliers by sorting or filtering the data. But when it comes to large datasets and big data, other tools are required. Two common types of data visualization used to find outliers are scatter plots and box plots.

<br/><br/>

## 5.4.4 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 5.4.5 Lab - interpret Visualisations with Respect to Outliers

### Objectives
In this lab, charts and functions will be used to detect data outliers.
- Part 1 : Examine a Dataset for Outliers

### Background / Scenario
An outlier is a value or data point that varies significantly from others in the same dataset. An outlier can result from variability in the measurements, experimental errors, or human error in entering the data.
To make sure that any data analysis is correct, outliers need to be identified and then it needs to be determined how best to treat them.

1. Examine a Dataset for Outliers
    - step 1 : open the dataset
    - step 2 : use a pivot table to select data for analysis
    - step 3 : sorting data to find outliers
    - step 4 : use a scatter chart to find outliers
    - step 5 : using the LARGE and SMALL functions to find outliers

* How a data analyst can deal with outliers
- Delete them
- Normalise them

<br/><br/>

## 5.4.6 Practice Item

<br/><br/>