## 5.5.1 Introducing VLOOKUP

Video
<br/><br/>
VLOOKUP is one of the many useful functions available in Excel. It is a great tool for data analysis and can grab corresponding values from a big dataset on the fly for multiple values. It can also get values from different spreadsheets or different workbooks, seamlessly. Knowing how to use VLOOKUP function can make your analysis task both easy and quick.
<br/>
The VLOOKUP function in Excel is a built-in function that is used to look up a piece of information in a table or a dataset and extract some corresponding data or information. In other words, you can use VLOOKUP to search for a value in one column of a table, and then return a corresponding value from anomther specified column.

<br/><br/>

## 5.5.2 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 5.5.3 What You Can Do with VLOOKUP
VLOOKUP is a very powerful data analysis tool within Excel and is great when you need to find information in a large spreadsheet or if you are consistently looking for the same type of information.
<br/>
A VLOOKUP function consists of 4 key pieces of information

1. The value to search for
2. The range to search in
3. The column in the range that contains the value you want the function to return
4. An indication of whether the function should return an approximate match (TRUE, in the function) or only an exact match (FALSE) of the return value. The default for VLOOKUP is an approximate match if FALSE is not specified in the function.

<br/><br/>

## 5.5.4 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 5.5.5 Lab - Using VLOOKUP in Data Analysis

### Objectives
In this lab, you will use the VLOOKUP function in Excel.
- Part 1 : Initial Examination of a Large Dataset
- Part 2 : Apply the VLOOKUP Function

### Background / Scenario
Searching for a single data record from a very large dataset for analysis usually requires the application of specific search functions to facilitate locating and extracting the information required. In this lab, the Excel VLOOKUP function will be used to locate information from a large dataset.
<br/>

1. Initial Examination of a Large Dataset
    - stpe 1 : download the data file
    - step 2 : examine the data

2. Apply the VLOOKUP Function
    - step 1 : select result display area
    - step 2 : create the VLOOKUP functions
    - step 3 : test the VLOOKUP functions
    - step 4 : test
    - step 5 : improve the VLOOKUP function

<br/><br/>

## 5.5.6 Practice Item

<br/><br/>
