## 7.1.1 The Database Schema
What makes relational databases so powerful is the capacity to store data in different but related tables. In this way, we avoid a lot of redundancies and potential discrepancies in the data.
<br/>
The data needed to perform data analysis is usually not all contained in one table. It is then usually necessary to combine related data from multiple tables. To determine what data you need and in what format the data exists, you must first understand the database's schema.
<br/>
A database schema is the definition of how data is organised inside the sturcture of the tables within a database. Relational databases use schemas that are organised using the following sturcture.

- Table : the organisation of data in a row-and-column format
- Field : a specific attribute of an individual record. the column headings
- Record : each one of the rows in a table
<br/>
The database schema defines more than just the fields and records within the data; it also defines the record keys, the relationships that exist between tables, and the data types of the fields within each table.

<br/><br/>

## 7.1.2 Keys
In relational databases, we have the data spread among different tables, and relationships between the tables allow us to reconstruct the data whenever we need it.
<br/>

- Primary Key : a column in a table that contains unique identifiers for each record within the table.
- Foreign Key : a column in a table that corresponds to the primary key in another table.

<br/><br/>

## 7.1.3 Database Relationships
- One-to-Many : a relationship between entities where a record in one table can be related to multiple records in the second table.
- Many-to-Many : a relationship between entities where multiple records in one table can be related to multiple records in another table.
- One-to-One : a relationship between entities where a record in one table can only be related to a single record in the second table.

<br/><br/>

## 7.1.4 Data Types
Database data types describe the format of the data contained within a column.
- CHAR : Abbreviation of “character size.” A fixed length (based on the database) string of characters that can contain numbers, letters or special characters in any combination. Maximum length is usually 255 characters.
- VARCHAR : Abbreviation of “variable character size.” A variable length string of characters that can contain numbers, letters, or special characters up to a maximum length (for example 65,535 characters).
- TEXT : A string that is usually used to handle long-form text content.
- INT : Abbreviation of “integer.” A numeric field that can contain only positive or negative integers.
- DECIMMAL : A numeric field that contains an exact, fixed-point number, or decimal number.
- FLOAT : A numeric field that contains a floating-point number.
- DATETIME : A date and time combination that comes in many standardized formats. Example format: YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss

## 7.1.5 Practice Item

<br/>