## 7.2.1 Working with multiple tables in SQL

Video
<br/>
Getting information from a single table is fairly simple. You select the fields from the table of interest and add some conditions using the WHERE clause to retrieve only the desired data. But the true value of relatinal databases comes from being able to select fields from multiple different tables to get the exact information that you need.
<br/>
Relational databases contain several tables that are related to one another directly through the use of a primary key and indirectly through foreign keys that point to primary keys in other tables. 

<br/><br/>

## 7.2.2 Joining Tablea
The relational database keeps information in interrelated tables that are linked using keys (primary and foreign), but how can we retrieve information from several tables at the same time using SQL?
<br/>
To extract or merge information from multiple tables, we use the JOIN function in SQL.

<br/><br/>

## 7.2.3 Types of Joins
There are multiple tyoes of joins that are possible between tables, depending on the desired result.
<br/>

1. Inner Join : returns only records that have matching data
2. Full Outer Join : (FULL JOIN) returns all rows from both tables
3. Right Join : return all records from the right table, and only the matched records from the left table
4. Left Join : return all records from the left table, and only the matched records from the right table

<br/><br/>

## 7.2.4 Natural Joins
It is possible to merge two tables based on common fields that exist in both tables using a NATURAL JOIN expression. Natural Joins occur when there is a column or columns that exist in both tables with the exact same field name and data type. The common fields do not need to be primary or foreign keys in either table.
* Because the NATURAL JOIN will implicitly join on any columns in both tables that have the same name and data type, an ON condition is not necessary. Care must be taken if a natural join is used to ensure that columns with the same name and data type actually contain matching information.

<br/><br/>

## 7.2.5 Practice Item

<br/>