## 8.3.1 Introduction to Dashboards
It is time to learn about Tableau dashboards. A dashboard is a way to display information in Tableau that consolidates multiple views or visualizations.
Tableau dashboard provides real-time data from multiple visualizations all in one window. It allows users to compare and monitor a variety of data visualizations simultaneously. Presenting information in this way makes it easier for audiences to understand data and make appropriate decisions quickly.

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.2 Static and Live Data
Dashboards can contain live or static data. Static data includes things like screen shots or snapshots of data. This allows for tightly controlled point-in-time narratives of the data; however, static data begins to lose value immediately and continues to lose value over time. Live data, on the other hand, is used for dashboards that are automatically updated. This gives your audience the most up-to-date data at all times, allowing for immediate action if data changes frequently.

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.3 Dashboard Benefits
There are several benefits to using dashboards to present your data.
1. Dashboards give access to data and reports from multiple data sources on a single screen, simplifying analysis.
2. Information is presented in a dynamic interface that is easy to use and understand.
3. Dashboards can allow users to filter and isolate individual metrics, zoom into maps or line plots for more detail, and develop detailed analytical reports.

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.4 Dashboard Best Practices
Before creating a dashboard there are a few best practices to observe:
1. Know your audience and understand what information they need.
2. Present relevant and clean data.
3. Select visualizations that best represent your data.
4. Use templates to reduce time and complexity.
5. Avoid cluttering the dashboard space with too many annotations or colors.
6. Use feedback to refine and improve the dashboard design.

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.5 Creating a New Dashboard
You can add as many views or sheets to a dashboard as you want. There is no limit.
Each view you add to the dashboard stays connected to its corresponding worksheet. This means that when you change or modify any of the worksheets, the dashboard views are also updated. And, if you modify any of views in the dashboard, the corresponding worksheet is updated.
Dashboards are a great way to present all relevant visualizations and information on one page or screen to your audience, so they do not have to navigate to other tabs or screens.

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.6 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.7 Creating Dashboards

Video

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.8 Lab - Dashboarding

### Objectives
This lab uses Tableau Desktop Public, a free version of the Tableau desktop product, to create a simple dashboard to answer questions based on a sample movie dataset.
- part 1 : Connecting to the Data
- Part 2 : Answering the Questions

### Background / Scenario
Dashboards are pages that can display multiple views of your data on the same screen. A dashboard can also be interactive, enabling a viewer to select or highlight information

1. Connecting to the Data
    - step 1 : connect to the dataset
    - step 2 : create a composite of the two ratings in the database

2. Answering the Questions
    - step 1 : answer question 1
    - step 2 : answer question 2
    - step 3 : answer question 3

3. Creating an Interactive Dashboard

<br/><br/>

## 8.3.9 Practice Item

<br/>