## 8.1.1 Introduction to Tableau
Video
<br/>
Being able to swifly visualise data in an intuitive manner is a highly sought after skill in most organisations. It is difficult to loiok at data in a flat file and try to extract meaningful patterns or trends. Through visualisation, comparisons and correlations can be shown in a manner that is clear and relavant.
<br/>
One of the most popular tools used by data analysts to accomplish this is Tableau. Tableau was created to simplify data driven decision making by helping people visualise and understand data. It if more than just a visualisation tool. It is a business intelligence tool that has capabilities beyond that of Excel, illustrating superior insights that significantly speed up analytical processes. Tableau simplifies data analysis through the use of dashboards that incorporate visual representations of different data improving information sharing. 

<br/><br/>

## 8.1.2 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 8.1.3 Getting Started in Tableau

Video

<br/><br/>

## 8.1.4 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 8.1.5 Lab - Exploring Tableau

### Objective
This lab introduces Tableau Public, a free version of the Tableau product. The lab requires the registration and download of the free Tableau application.
- Part 1 : Download and install the Tableau Public Desktop Application
- Part 2 : Navigating the Tableau Interface
- Part 3 : First Look at the Data

### Background / Scenario
In this lab, you will use Tableau to create a visualization that provides information regarding the overall popularity and revenue from a set of movies in a dataset.

1. Download and install the Tableau Public Desktop
    - step 1 : download Tableau
    - step 2 : install Tableau

2. Navigating the Tableau Interface
    - step 1 : explore the Tableau interface
    - step 2 : load the data

3. First Look at the Data
    - step 1 : populate sheet 1
    - step 2 : change to a combined view
    - step 3 : modify the chart to highlight the top and bottom years