## 10.1.1 Sample Portfolios
Data Science portfolios are as unique as the people who create them. No two portfolios will be the same in every respect, because they reflect the personalities, interests and experiences of a singular individual. Most portfolios, however, do contain similar types of information. 
<br/>
A portfolio differs from a social media page in that it should reflect your professional image or personal brand that you want to be seen by current and future employers, other experts in your field, and recruiters who are searching for talent. An internet search for “example data science portfolios” will find numerous sites, articles, and YouTube videos showing portfolios created by data professionals. To get an idea of the different ways people approach their Data Science portfolios, spend some time exploring examples that interest you

<br/><br/>

## 10.1.2 Building Your Portfolio
If you wish to use any of the work you did in this course as a springboard for your own Data Science portfolio, now is the time.

<br/><br/>

## 10.1.3 How Employers Evaluate Portfolios
The main purpose of your portfolio is to showcase your work. But how will your portfolio be evaluated by an audience? There are a number of things that most recruiters, employers, and others in the field look for when they evaluate your portfolio.

1. Is the portfolio organized and easy to navigate?
2. Is there a concise introduction or About Me section that gives a short summary of who you are and the purpose of the portfolio?
3. Are your data science projects accessible to viewers?
4. Is a non-technical person (such as a recruiter) or someone without specialized software able to understand your work?
5. Do your project pages explain why and how you did your project(s)? 
6. Is there a clear outcome or conclusion reached at the conclusion of the project(s)? 

<br/>