## 7.4.1 Data Manipulation Language
We have learned how to query relational databases with SELECT queries. But to do that, we need data in the database. How does the data arrive in the database? SQL offers a series of other queries to do this.
<br/>
The SQL Data Manipulation Language, or DML, enables the insertion, deletion, and management of data within the database. DML commands include:

- INSERT : add a data record (row) to an existing table
- DELETE : delete data from a table
- UPDATE : modify an existing row of data
- SET : used with UPDATE to specify what to update
- LOCK : lock a table

<br/><br/>

## 7.4.2 Data Definition Language
In order to use any of the SQL, first someone must create the tables in the database itself. To do that, SQL provides data definition language (DDL) statements. Amongst the capabilities supported in DDL are:

- CREATE : create databases and database objects
- DROP : delete databases objects
- ALTER : modify database objects
- RENAME : rename database objects

<br/><br/>

## 7.4.3 Distributed Data and NoSQL
Relational databases serve the needs of data analysts for most applications. However, with the explosive growth in the volume of information like web transactions and machine-generated data, large-scale analytics is becoming increasingly more difficult to manage with just a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). Relational database systems typically have three components: the database management system (RDBMS) software, the physical servers on which the software is loaded, and the disks where the data items are stored. As databases grow, more powerful servers are needed to process and store the larger databases containing more data. With this traditional RDBMS infrastructure and the amount of data that these new applications use, it is easy to arrive to a limit where just a very powerful server and a huge amount of storage are not enough to process it.
<br/>
A NoSQL database stores and accesses data differently than relational databases do. NoSQL is sometimes called “non-relational,” because it does not organize data in tables consisting of columns and rows that conform to a structured schema. Instead of tables, NoSQL data is stored in an unstructured or semi-structured format that makes database design simpler.
<br/>
We have 4 main types of NoSQL databases.
