## 9.2.1 Ethical Issues with Data

Video
<br/>
Ethics in data analytics is not just limited to data privacy concerns. It also relates to general ethical behaviour throughout the data product life cycle. Taking the steps to ensure that your data is representative, non-biased, and presented responsibly to the correct individuals or organisations are all components of data ethics that need to be considered in any project.
<br/>
The ethical use of data is a critical issue for individuals, organisations and governments around the world. People want privacy protections to be maintained and they expect organisations and governments to keep their data safe and responsibly used only with permission. Individuals are also increasingly taking action to protect themselves and their data.
<br/>
When using data obtained from public sources, always verify that data does not include any PII information that might be a security issue. Check all copyright information as well. Even if the material is under a Creative Commons License, some have specific usage restrictions. 

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.2 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.3 Current and Future Regulations
Data privacy and security regulations are ever-changing. As technology moves forward and data becomes an increasingly valuable commodity, regulation of the gathering, storing, and use of data becomes more and more critical.
<br/>
Some of the most restrictive regulations are found in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which was adopted by the European Union.
<br/>
Other countries have similar regulations in place to protect personally identifiable information (PII). Personally identifiable information is any data element, or combination of elements, that would allow the identity of an individual to be determined or inferred.

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.4 Practive Item

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.5 Data Ethics Scenarios

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.6 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.7 Data Security
Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability, known as the CIA triad, is a summary guideline for organizational data security.
<br/>
- Confidentiality : ensure the privacy of data by restricting access through authentication and encryption.
- Integrity : assure that the information is accurate and trustworthy.
- Availability : ensure that the information is accessible only to authorized people.

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.8 Practice Item

<br/><br/>

## 9.2.9 Lab - Ethics of Data Analytics

### Objective
Use the discussion boards to start, or contribute to, a topic based on the ethics of using Big Data. The term “big data” refers to the ever-increasing amount of data that is being collected, processed and stored. Much of this data is obtained through internet activity, social media, and through sensors that are installed in everyday items.

### Background / Scenario
Big data is used by governments, companies, and web sites to determine answers to questions based on analytics. Much of this data is personal or private. The results of statistical analysis may also contain personal or private information, even when the analysis was performed on public information

1. Read articles on data ethics
2. Familiarise with privacy and security laws
3. Create a blog entry on the ethical use of data for your portfolio