## 6.1.1 Introduction to Databases

Video
<br/>
In many cases, the data that we need to work with is contained in a database, either locar or remote. A database is a repository of data with a defined structure. Databases are usually designed, built, and populated with data for a specific purpose.
<br/>
A schema describes the design and structure of the database, including the table names, fields, data types, and the relationship between these entities.
Database also contains metadata. Metadata is data about data. When looking at a database, the metadata tells you information about what is contained within the database.
<br/>
DBMS softward products are often referred to as servers in a client server environment. DBMS are more than just applications running on the server. They are complex pieces of software that enables users and applidations to interact with underlying data.
<br/>
NoSQL Databases are a relatively new form of database in that they are characterised by a flexible schema with the ability to scale both the number of characters and fields in a record, and the number of records.

<br/><br/>

## 6.1.2 Flat File Databases
Flat file databases can also be in plain text format. A common example of this type of flat file database is a CSV, or comma-separated values, file. Here, there are no cells, as in a spreadsheet—instead, information in each row is separated by plain text characters, called delimiters, such as commas.
<br/>
Flat files are good for simple data, and you will use them in many scenarios. However, if you need to store large amounts of complex data, the flat file system quickly becomes inefficient. Flat files are also prone to some types of errors. One of these common problems is called data inconsistency.

<br/><br/>

## 6.1.3 Limitations of Flat Files
When the structure of data starts to be more complex, it cannot be efficiently stored in a flat file database.

<br/><br/>

## 6.1.4 Relational Databases
It keeps related types of data in tables, and each table can have relationships with other tables that jink all the information together.

- Advantages
    - Data is stored in interrelated tables, allowing for storing complex data efficiently
    - Increased security and data accuracy
    - Ideal for large data storage
<br/>

- Challenges
    - RDBS software can be expensive to set up and maintain
    - RDBSs require a specific skillset to use
    - Performance can be slow if there are multiple large and complex tables

<br/><br/>

## 6.1.5 Entry Relationship Diagrams (ERDs)

Video
<br/>
A core function of relational databases is being able to create relationships between tables. However, that requires the structure of data tables to become more complex. In order to understand the added complexity, you need an entity relationship diagram, ERD. They are the key behind databases. They show how the tables are related to one another. 
<br/>
A primary key is used to uniquely identify a field, column, in a table. Each value in the field must be unique, so each row is different from the next. The primary key field cannot contain duplicates or null values.
<br/>
A foreign key is a key in one table which points to the primary key of another table. Foreign key can, and typically do, have duplicates. Both of these key types are essential for maintaing database integrity, and are necessary when joining fields from separate tables into one table. 

<br/><br/>

