## 6.2.1 The SQL Query Language

Once we have designed our database with all the tables and columns that we need, we need a way to add data to those tables, read that data, update it if it changes, and delete anything we don’t need anymore. To do that, most of the relational databases use a language called SQL, or “Structured Query Language,” and each time we use SQL to do something in the database, it’s called a “query.”
<br/>
This first command defines the goal of the whole query. The SELECT command, along with INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE, is part of the SQL language used to work with, or manipulate, the data itself. This is called DML (Data Manipulation Language).
<br/>
Another part of the SQL language is called DDL, or Data Definition Language, and it allows us to create and maintain the database schema. With DDL we can do things like create tables, define their structure, and specify the data type that is expected for each column.

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.2 What is SQL?

Video
<br/>
SQL is a programming language that uses statements to communicate with relational databases. A statement in SQL tells the database what we want to do with the data. Correctly written statements in SQL allow users and organisations to retrieve, update, delete, create, and set permissions on the tables within a database.

* SQL is not a case-sensitive language, so the query will execute with both lower and upper cased SQL commands.

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.3 SQL Lab : SQL Arund the World
In this lab, we will begin learning the SQL language.

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.4 Using SQL to Query Data
Operator : =, !=, >, <, >=, <=, BETWEEN, LIKE, IN, AND, OR, NOT

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.5 SQL Lab : Ordering and Limiting
In this lab, we will learn ORDER BY, LIMIT

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.6 Best practices in SQL Queries
1. pay close attention to case
2. use spaces to separate keywords and variables or parameters
3. use single quotes to specify character strings
4. use aliases to make queries more readable
5. use indentation and new lines
6. add comments where they might be userful later

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.7 SQL Lab : Successful Movies
In this lab, we will learn to apply our knowledge of SQL to a real-world project .

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.8 SQL Lab : Grouping Data
In this lab we will learn how to perform calculations on groups of rows.

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.9 Using Operators in SQL Queries
To analyse data, we often need to perform operations with the results of a read command. We could load them into a spreadsheet, group them, and then find values like averages or counts. Buit instead, we can complete our work faster bu querying the database and using operators to aggregate values and make calculations.
<br/>
Operator : SUM, AVG, COUNT, MIN, MAX

<br/><br/>

## 6.2.10 SQL Lab : Calculated Columns
Here we will learn how to use rename and order calcuated columns.

<br/><br/>
